Part 1: Java Functional Programming Interview - Questions and Answers

1) WHAT IS THE STRUCTURE OF A LAMBDA EXPRESSION?

The lambda expression has the following structure:

(method params) -> {lambda expression body}



where

method params - a list of input parameters separated by commas (if there are more than one parameters, they are enclosed in brackets).

operator "->" - serves as a separator between the list of parameters of our method and the body in which its implementation takes place.

lambda expression body - method body, consisting of one or more expressions enclosed in curly braces.





2) WHAT VARIABLES DO LAMBDA EXPRESSIONS ACCESS TO?



Lambda expressions have access to the variables of the scope in which they are defined. But access is possible only if the variables are effective final, that is, either explicitly have the final modifier, or in case they do not change their value after initialization, if the variable is assigned a value for the second time, the lambda expression causes a compilation error.




3) WHAT IS METHOD REFERENCES?



Method references are compact lambda expressions that allow you to pass references to methods or constructors. To do this, use the "::" keyword.

Reference methods implement a useful syntax to refer to existing methods or constructors of Java classes or objects (instances). Together with lambda expressions, reference methods make language constructs compact and concise, making it boilerplate.




4) WHAT TYPES OF REFERENCES TO METHODS DO YOU KNOW?



There are three kinds of method references:

Reference to a static method(ContainingClass::staticMethodName)

Reference to a concrete object method(containingObject::instanceMethodName)

Reference to constructor(ClassName::new), for generics (generics) Class< T >::new.





5) EXPLAIN THE SYSTEM.OUT::PRINTLN EXPRESSION.



The System.out::println expression is a reference to the static println method of the out object of the System class, which is equivalent to the x -> System.out.println(x) lambda expression.





6) WHAT ARE FUNCTIONAL INTERFACES?



A functional interface is one that defines exactly one abstract method.



Java 8 introduced a new @FunctionalInterface annotation to mark an interface as functional, this annotation is used to avoid accidentally adding abstract methods to a functional interface. It's not required, but it's good coding practice.



Functional interfaces allow us to use lambda expressions to instantiate such interfaces.



The best example of a functional interface would be the java.lang.Runnable interface with a single abstract run() method. Note that an interface can include any number of default or static methods and still be functional, because default and static methods are not abstract.





7) WHAT ARE STREAMS IN JAVA?



java.util.stream - introduced to support parallelization of computations in streams. Provides the ability to process a sequence of elements by executing one or more operations, which can be performed either sequentially or in parallel. Streams are divided into serial and parallel. The biggest benefit of this is when working with collections.


Operations on a stream are either intermediate or terminal. All intermediate operations return a stream, so we can combine multiple intermediate operations without using a semicolon. Terminal operations return void or a non-stream result.



8) WHAT IS THE COLLECT METHOD FOR?


Most operations of the Stream class that modify a dataset return that dataset as a stream. However, there are situations when you would like to receive data not as a stream, but as a regular collection, for example, ArrayList or HashSet. And for this, the Stream class has a collect method. The method takes as a parameter a conversion function to a collection:

<R,A> R collect(Collector<? super T,A,R> collector)

The R parameter represents the result type of the method, the T parameter is the type of the element in the stream, and the A parameter is the type of the intermediate accumulated data. As a result, the collector parameter represents the function of converting the stream into a collection.



9) WHAT IS THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN A COLLECTION AND A STREAM?



The difference between a Collection (Collection) of data and a stream (Stream) from the new JDK8 is that collections allow you to work with elements individually, while a stream (Stream) does not. For example, with collections, you can add items, remove items, and insert in the middle. A Stream does not allow you to manipulate individual elements from a data set, but instead allows you to perform functions on the data as a whole.



10) WHAT IS THE FOREACH METHOD IN STREAMS FOR?



Method void forEach(Consumer<? super T> action) - action is performed for each element. forEach is a terminal operation, used to iterate over each element of the stream.

forEach does not guarantee the sequence of displaying elements in a parallel stream, for this the forEachOrdered method is used - it guarantees the order.



11) WHAT IS THE MAP METHOD IN STREAMS FOR?



Method <R> Stream<R> map(Function<? super T,? extends R> mapper) - converts elements of type T into elements of type R and returns a stream with elements of R.



map() is an intermediate operation, the method is used to convert elements to another object using the passed function.





12) WHAT IS THE PURPOSE OF THE FILTER METHOD IN STREAMS?



Method Stream<T> filter(Predicate<? super T> predicate) - filters elements according to the condition in the predicate. filter is an intermediate operation, used to filter an array through a function.



In fact, filter does not perform filtering, instead it creates a new stream, which, when completed, contains the elements of the original stream that match the given predicate.







13) WHAT IS THE LIMIT METHOD IN STREAMS FOR?



Method Stream<T> limit(long maxSize) - leaves only maxSize elements in the stream. limit is an intermediate operation, used to fetch the first maxSize elements of the stream. This method also returns a modified stream that has no more than maxSize elements.





14) WHAT IS THE SORTED METHOD IN STREAMS FOR?



The Stream<T> sorted()/Stream<T> sorted(Comparator<? super T> comparator) method returns a sorted stream. sorted() is an intermediate operation, a method used to sort a stream using the natural order of comparison of its elements. There is also a second sorted() method that takes either a Comparable instance or its corresponding lambda expression.





15) PARALLEL STREAM PROCESSING IN JAVA?



To make a normal serial stream parallel, call the parallel method on the Stream object.



Alternatively, you can also use the parallelStream() method of the Collection interface to create a parallel stream from a collection.



At the same time, if the working machine is not multi-core, then the thread will be executed as serial.



